Right so I've got a command line open
and here we can view the S.E
the standard edition and JDK visible modules
using the following command.
We're gonna start by typing Java
space dash dash list dash modules
and you can see a big list of modules
that will appear when you do that.
And what you can do is examine a module
its version, its dependencies,
and it's published states by adding the describe module
argument to a Java course
I'm gonna do it with Java.
Space dash dash describe dash module.
So let's try it for Java dot login.
And you can see the output showing from that command.
Now you can also use the Jdeps tool
which is Java's class dependency analyzer
to also analyse modules.
For example to view a quick summary
of direct dependencies on a module
you try this command
that's jdeps space and the command we want is
dash dash print dash module dash deps.
Then dash M which specifies which module we're interested in
and we can do for example java dot SQL.
And you can see we're got a quick summary
of the direct dependencies for this module.
Incidentally module or dash M can be used interchangeably.
And obviously the abbreviated one.
Module
so it's two dashes there.
Dash dash module or dash M
Basically just the same information.
Now as an alternative you can use another option
jdeps dash dash list dash reduced deps
dash dash module java.sql again
so it's not a comment unlimited list as it was previously.
Now you can also get a listing
which includes implied read edges if there are any
and by using the list reduced deps you won't see that
so if we did the same thing
jdeps space dash dash list dash deps
and dash dash module java dot sql
sql again
that gives the same thing.
But a better example let's use
we'll search for rowset to give us a bit more information.
And you can see java dot sql is shown in the list there
for dependencies amongst other things.
So again jdeps to see the difference
dash dash list reduced deps
dash M java dot sql dot rowset
you can see there the output's slightly different
it omits Java login and Java dot xml
which are your implied read edges here.
Right so that's a very quick overview
and we're gonna be discussing more of these commands
in upcoming videos.
But in the last video and this one
we discussed the goals of the Modular JDK
as stated by project jigsaw.
I introduced you to standard and non-standard modules.
I introduced you to a module graph
and showed you the Java SE module graph in action.
And as you saw in this video
I just introduced you to some of the options
that Java and the jdeps tools support for examining modules.
In the next video
we'll discuss how you would create a module and run it.
See you in the next video.